.TH DASHCAST "1" "July 2015" "DashCast" "GPAC"

.SH NAME
DashCast - MPEG-4 Systems Framework and Software Development Kit

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B DashCast
.RI [options]

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "General options"
.TP
\fB\-log-file \fRfilename
set output log file. Also works with -lf
.TP
\fB\-logs \fRLOGS
set log tools and levels, formatted as a ':'-separated list of toolX[:toolZ]@levelX
.TP
\fB\-conf \fRfilename
set the configuration file name (default: dashcast.conf)
.TP
\fB\-switch-source \fRfilename
set the configuration file name for source switching

.SS "Live options"
.TP
\fB\-live
system is live and input is a camera
.TP
\fB\-live-media
system is live and input is a media file
.TP
\fB\-no-loop
system does not loop on the input media file when live
.TP
\fB\-dynamic-ast
changes segment availability start time at each MPD generation (old behaviour but not allowed in most profiles)
.TP
\fB\-insert-utc
inserts UTC clock at the start of each segment

.SS "Source options"
.TP
\fB\-npts
use frame counting for timestamps (not error-free) instead of source timing (default)
.TP
\fB\-av \fRstring
set the source name for a multiplexed audio and video input.
If this option is present, neither '-a' nor '-v' shall be present.
.TP
\fB\-v \fRstring
set the source name for a video input.
If input is from a webcam, use "/dev/video[x]" where x is the video device number.
If input is the screen video, use ":0.0+[x],[y]" which captures from upper-left at x,y.
If input is from stdin, use "pipe:".
.TP
\fB\-vf \fRstring
set the input video format.
To capture from a webcam, set video4linux2.
To capture the screen, set x11grab.
.TP
\fB\-v4l2f \fRinv4l2f
inv4l2f is the input format for webcam acquisition.
It can be mjpeg, yuyv422, etc.
.TP
\fB\-pixf \fRFMT
set the input pixel format
.TP
\fB\-vfr \fRN
force the input video framerate
.TP
\fB\-vres \fRWxH
force the video resolution (e.g. 640x480)
.TP
\fB\-vcrop \fRXxY
crop the source video from X pixels left and Y pixels top. Must be used with -vres.
.TP
\fB\-a \fRstring
set the source name for an audio input.
If input is from microphone, use "plughw:[x],[y]" where x is the card number and y is the device number
.TP
\fB\-af \fRstring
set the input audio format

.SS "Output options"
.TP
\fB\-vcodec \fRstring
set the output video codec (default: h264)
.TP
\fB\-vcustom \fRstring
send custom parameters directly to the video encoder
.TP
\fB\-gdr
use Gradual Decoder Refresh feature for video encoding (h264 codec only)
.TP
\fB\-gop
specify GOP size in frames - default is framerate (1 sec gop)
.TP
\fB\-low-delay
specify that low delay settings should be used (no B-frames, fast encoding)
.TP
\fB\-acodec \fRstring
set the output audio codec (default: aac)
.TP
\fB\-acustom \fRstring
send custom parameters directly to the audio encoder

.SS "DASH options"
.TP
\fB\-seg-dur \fRdur:int
set the segment duration in millisecond (default value: 1000)
.TP
\fB\-frag \fRdur:int
set the fragment duration in millisecond (default value: 1000) (same as -frag-dur)
.TP
\fB\-seg-marker \fRmarker:4cc
add a marker box named marker at the end of DASH segment
.TP
\fB\-out \fRoutdir:str
outdir is the output data directory (default: output)
.TP
\fB\-mpd \fRmpdname:str
mpdname is the MPD file name (default: dashcast.mpd)
.TP
\fB\-ast-offset \fRdur:int
dur is the MPD availabilityStartTime shift in milliseconds (default value: 0)
.TP
\fB\-mpd-refresh \fRdur:int
dur is the MPD minimumUpdatePeriod in seconds
.TP
\fB\-time-shift \fRdur:int
dur is the MPD TimeShiftBufferDepth in seconds.
The default value is 10. Specify -1 to keep all files.
.TP
\fB\-min-buffer \fRdur:float
dur is the MPD minBufferTime in seconds (default value: 1.0)
.TP
\fB\-base-url \fRbaseurl:str
baseurl is the MPD BaseURL

.SH EXAMPLES
DashCast -av test.avi -live-media
.PP
DashCast -a test_audio.mp3 -v test_audio.mp4 -live-media
.PP
DashCast -vf video4linux2 -vres 1280x720 -vfr 24 -v4l2f mjpeg -v /dev/video0 -af alsa -a plughw:1,0 -live
.PP
DashCast -vf x11grab -vres 800x600 -vfr 25 -v :0.0 -live

.SH BUGS and OTHER HELP
For bug reports, more information on BT or XMT-A formats or GPAC TTXT files or ISMACryp,
MPEG-4 Systems usage and more help on DashCast please visit the GPAC web site http://www.gpac.io

.SH "AUTHORS"
Arash Shafiei.
Copyright \(co Telecom ParisTech 2000-2013.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR GPAC (1),
.BR MP4Box (1),
.BR MP4Client (1)
