.TH MP42TS "1" "July 2015" "MP42TS" "GPAC"

.SH NAME
MP42TS - MPEG-4 Systems Framework and Software Development Kit

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B MP42TS
.RI <inputs> <destinations> [options]

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Inputs"
.TP
\fB\-src \fRfilename[:OPTS]
specifies an input file used for a TS service:
.br
 * currently only supports ISO files and SDP files
.br
 * can be used several times, once for each program
.br
By default each source is a program in a TS. 
Source options are colon-separated list of options, as follows:
.br
 
.br
\fBID\fR=\fBN  \fRspecifies the program ID for this source.
All sources with the same ID will be added to the same program
.br
\fBname\fR=\fBSTR  \fRprogram name, as used in DVB service description table
.br
\fBprovider\fR=\fBSTR  \fRprovider name, as used in DVB service description table

.TP
\fB\-prog filename
same as "-src filename"

.SS "Destinations"
Several destinations may be specified as follows, at least one is mandatory:
.TP
\fB\-dst-udp \fRUDP_address:port (multicast or unicast)
.TP
\fB\-dst-rtp \fRRTP_address:port
.TP
\fB\-dst-file \fRfilename

The following parameters may be specified when -dst-file is used:
.TP
\fB\-segment-dir \fRdir
server local directory to store segments (ends with a '/')
.TP
\fB\-segment-duration \fRdur
segment duration in seconds
.TP
\fB\-segment-manifest \fRfile
m3u8 file basename
.TP
\fB\-segment-http-prefix \fRp
client address for accessing server segments
.TP
\fB\-segment-number \fRn
number of segments to list in the manifest

.SS "Basic options"
.TP
\fB\-rate \fRR
specifies target rate in kbps of the multiplex (optional)
.TP
\fB\-real-time
specifies the muxer will work in real-time mode
.br
 * if not specified, the muxer will generate the TS as quickly as possible
.br
 * automatically set for SDP or BT input
.TP
\fB\-pcr-init \fRV
sets initial value V for PCR - if not set, random value is used
.TP
\fB\-pcr-offset \fRV
offsets all timestamps from PCR by V, in 90kHz. Default value is computed based on input media.
.TP
\fB\-psi-rate \fRV
sets PSI refresh rate V in ms (default 100ms).
.br
 * If 0, PSI data is only send once at the beginning or before each IDR when -rap option is set.
.br
 * This should be set to 0 for DASH streams.
.TP
\fB\-time \fRn
request the muxer to stop after n ms
.TP
\fB\-single-au
forces 1 PES = 1 AU (disabled by default)
.TP
\fB\-rap
forces RAP/IDR to be aligned with PES start for video streams (disabled by default).
In this mode, PAT, PMT and PCR will be inserted before the first TS packet of the RAP PES.
.TP
\fB\-flush-rap
same as -rap but flushes all other streams (sends remaining PES packets) before inserting PAT/PMT
.TP
\fB\-nb-pack \fRN
specifies to pack up to N TS packets together before sending on network or writing to file
.TP
\fB\-pcr-ms \fRN
sets max interval in ms between 2 PCR. Default is 100 ms
.TP
\fB\-ttl \fRN
specifies Time-To-Live for multicast. Default is 1.
.TP
\fB\-ifce \fRIPIFCE
specifies default IP interface to use. Default is IF_ANY.
.TP
\fB\-temi \fR[URL]
Inserts TEMI time codes in adaptation field. URL is optional
.TP
\fB\-temi-delay \fRDelayMS
Specifies delay between two TEMI url descriptors (default is 1000)
.TP
\fB\-temi-offset \fROffsetMS
Specifies an offset in ms to add to TEMI (by default TEMI starts at 0)
.TP
\fB\-temi-noloop
Do not restart the TEMI timeline at the end of the source
.TP
\fB\-sdt-rate \fRMS
Gives the SDT carrousel rate in milliseconds. If 0 (default), SDT is not sent

.SS "MPEG-4/T-DMB options"
.TP
\fB\-bifs-src \fRfilename
update file: must be either an .sdp or a .bt file
.TP
\fB\-audio \fRurl
may be mp3/udp or aac/http (shoutcast/icecast)
.TP
\fB\-video \fRurl
shall be a raw h264 frame
.TP
\fB\-mpeg4-carousel \fRn
carousel period in ms
.TP
\fB\-mpeg4\fR,\fB \-4on2
forces usage of MPEG-4 signaling (IOD and SL Config)
.TP
\fB\-4over2
same as -4on2 and uses PMT to carry OD Updates
.TP
\fB\-bifs-pes
carries BIFS over PES instead of sections
.TP
\fB\-bifs-pes-ex
carries BIFS over PES without writing timestamps in SL

.SS "Misc options"
.TP
\fB\-logs
set log tools and levels, formatted as a ':'-separated list of toolX[:toolZ]@levelX
.TP
\fB\-h\fR,\fB \-help
print this screen

.SH BUGS and OTHER HELP
For bug reports, more information on BT or XMT-A formats or GPAC TTXT files or ISMACryp,
MPEG-4 Systems usage and more help on MP42TS please visit the GPAC web site http://www.gpac.io

.SH "AUTHORS"
Jean Le Feuvre, Cyril Concolato, Romain Bouqueau.
Copyright \(co Telecom ParisTech 2005-2012.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR GPAC (1),
.BR MP4Box (1),
.BR MP4Client (1)
